[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Couple of days of meds.
Since you said he was suicidal,
I took him to the hospital
and put them all in there.
I mean, if you really
wanted to commit suicide,
there's nothing I
could do about it,
but I wasn't going
to make it easy.
>> This all started off with
a bad relationship and some
tests, anxiety and
stress in grad school.
And now, I am a totally
dysfunctional, highly suicidal
individual.
And the only thing that's
happened between then
and now is I've been
exposed to a series of very
strong psychiatric medications.
>> Right now, medicines
are given like candy.
Patients are seeing
doctors for five minutes
and they're given a pill.
It's my belief that many of
the medications that doctors
are giving to patients today
are more harmful than helpful
to those patients.
>> They want that pill that
they hope will take care
of their problem
thoroughly and rapidly.
And most of these medications
will actually do that very well
in the short term.
In the short term,
they really work.
The problem is in the long
term they're mostly disastrous.
>> I'm not sick.
There's nothing wrong with me.
This is just damage to
my nervous system cause
from a properly
taken prescribed drug
that a doctor told me was safe.
There's nothing safe
about this drug.
>> This is crazy.
It's very clear to me after
having studied the science
that the way we use
psychiatric drugs
do vastly more harm than good.
>> I remember driving my niece
to school and I was like,
all the kids are
going to be murdered.
And then like that thought
created adrenaline.
So then when the adrenaline
kicked, I was like, oh my god,
am I going to be the
one that does it?
And then it's like, yeah,
you're going to kill these kids.
And then I'm like, I'm sitting
here looking at my niece,
like I can't-- and the
thoughts are so bad that like
you're like teeth chatter.
Like, oh my god,
I'm capable of that?
Are you kidding me?
I was never like this.
That's the scariest
part, because I
don't know is this my normal--
like did Efexor do this to me?
Did Cymbalta do this to me?
Did Geodon?
Abilify?
Which one?
Which one did it?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was very
successful academically.
I got accepted into the Naval
Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
After Annapolis,
I did a few years
on a destroyer based
out of Mayport, Florida.
And then when you're
at sea, you're
training to be the guy directing
the ship where to navigate,
where to go.
It's great fun, but it's
also extremely high stress.
But I loved it.
I was preselected for
satellite systems engineering.
Part of that was
going to grad school.
When I got the acceptance
letter from MIT,
it was one of those moments
where you're just like,
this is not happening.
It must be a mistake.
But then stars have aligned
and I was really happy.
Fall semester went
off without a hitch.
I had started a
romantic relationship
earlier that summer.
The early spring is when
things started to fall apart.
My romantic relationship kind
of took a turn, became toxic.
I was in distress.
I was overwhelmed.
We were taking upwards of
four to five graduate level
courses a semester.
And so I sought out care
from the mental health clinic
at MIT, the campus clinic.
Presented solution
to my problems
was a prescription for
the benzodiazepine Ativan,
which I'd never previously
known about or taken.
And Zoloft.
They work as advertised.
I mean, it's very
immediate effect.
It's very calming.
>> Dave told me probably on our
third or fourth date that he
was on medication for
depression and ADHD.
I have ADHD myself and
take medication for that.
I had issues with depression and
sought out help and medication
and counseling, and it's
kind of fairly normal now.
>> I met the girl of my dreams.
I got engaged
during that period.
Work was great.
Loved it.
Back to my normal what I
thought was my normal self.
Somewhere in the eight
month time range,
I started noticing
emotional flatness,
some sexual dysfunction,
difficulty remembering
what street we lived on.
That whole period is just a
blur, like I was a zombie.
I have this big wedding planned.
I remember talking to
my mom prior to it.
I was-- mom, I just--
I feel nothing.
I feel emotionally
void of anything.
And that's when I went to
the psychiatrist and said,
this is-- the
stuff isn't for me.
I need to get off it.
I think the drug is my problem.
That's really when
shit hit the fan.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I've always been very close
with my parents even when I was
a child.
I love school.
I like to be with
my friends a lot.
I feel very comforted just
being around other people.
When I was 11 years old,
I moved from Nashville
to Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
We moved a lot for my
parents' various jobs
which is very hard in terms of
keeping like lifelong friends.
I would oftentimes just like sit
in my room and listen to music
and just like, honestly, just
kind of mope, mope around.
I started having a lot
of anxiety about school
and I was so anxious I
got these stomach aches
where I didn't want to eat.
I wouldn't eat breakfast
because I had a stomach ache.
I wouldn't eat much lunch
>> I noticed that she'd
gotten kind of thin.
I just kind of blurt it out.
Do you think you
might be anorexic?
She went and got on
the scale and she said,
I think I lost 20 pounds.
And so I just totally freaked
out and got an appointment
same day.
>> And then toward the end,
the therapist asked me to come
into the room.
She said, I think
what would really
be best to kickstart
this treatment is for her
to get on antidepressants.
Wait a second, we came here
for the talk therapy, right?
We didn't come here to
kickstart it with medication.
That's the whole point of going
to a therapist, I thought.
>> Rebecka was prescribed
Zoloft for the first medication.
She said it didn't
really make a difference.
She didn't feel any better
but she also didn't really
feel any worse at that time.
So when we saw her
doctor again, the doctor
switched her to Prozac.
Shortly after, I
had a business trip.
And I got a phone
call from Rebecka,
and she said, "You know, I've
been seeing this little girl".
And I'm like, what
do you mean you've
been seeing a little girl?
Yeah, like she's not really
there but like I can see her
and I named her Alice.
>> Like I genuinely thought
that there were people here
in the room that weren't there,
that people could also see
but they were very real for me.
>> She came into our bedroom
late at night and she was
shaking.
She said the hallucination
touched me and asked
me to come into the kitchen
so I could hurt myself.
>> And they said,
oh enough of this.
She needs-- she needs help.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was a waitress
in New York City.
Pretty normal girl doing normal
things, nothing exceptional,
nothing not exceptional,
just normal.
My mind was clear.
I was happy.
The only little issue I
had was I couldn't sleep.
I'll get out at 2:00,
3:00 in the morning
so I knew that my
sleep issues were
related to working nighttime.
So I went to my doctor,
just my regular doctor.
I see him maybe twice a year.
And I asked him for
something for sleep.
He gave me a referral,
and I took the referral
and I called a bunch of
psychiatrists and this one
doctor in Brooklyn said,
yeah, we're seeing patients.
Come on in.
He gave me a prescription
for Lorazepam.
He told me to take two in
the day and two at night.
I then said, why would I
need to take a sleeping
pill during the day?
I don't want to
sleep during the day.
And he said that
is how it works.
I said, OK.
I didn't even people
could have sleep issues
because I was sleeping
normal all my life.
So it's not something
I thought about.
So but I had a
feeling it was my job.
I just didn't think
I could quit my job.
I thought I could
get help for it.
That's how I went
to a psychiatrist.
And he prescribed me
this drug, Lorazepam.
I took it for six years and--
>> Wait, you took
Lorazepam for six years?
>> Six-- six and a half years.
>> Unfortunately, that's the
problem that most pharmacists
see with Lorazepam.
Lorazepam, again, if the
doctor takes the time out
to read the package
insert, it clearly states--
>> Are they not reading?
>> That, I don't know.
I can only tell you what I read.
The use of benzodiazepine
has increased tremendously
over the years.
Since they've been around
for such a long time,
a lot of doctors have
forgotten about the side
effects and the possible
dangers of these medications.
None of them were ever
meant for long term use.
But everybody knows
somebody who's
been taking
benzodiazepine for years.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I started thinking like,
OK, when did this start?
How did this start?
What led up to me falling apart?
Like, I was the go-to
person in my unit always.
If they needed a job done and
they needed it done right,
they would ask me.
I was physically
fit, knew my job,
I got promoted to sergeant.
After work, I was
like a lot of fun.
I like to travel, go to
the beach, spontaneous.
I was just like the happy
person, like the happy go lucky
friend.
Like, hey, let's go shopping.
Let's go to a bakery.
Let's-- never had a second
thought about anything crazy.
That's who I was before this.
So when the war started,
I think most of it
was stressful
situations every day.
Like being shot at on
convoys, just driving around
in dangerous areas of Baghdad.
Your head was like
constantly scanning
for something dangerous.
Be a strong sergeant,
I don't take no shit
that's just the way I was.
But like the first two
months I was in Baghdad,
like I'm really, really sick.
I had nosebleeds,
fainting, dizziness.
I lost like 40 pounds so they
medivac-ed me out of Iraq.
Then my convoy got hit the
day after I got medevac-ed.
And so I saw the
kid come back in
and he was one of my
soldiers, and I felt horrible.
And like that was the day that
I saw psychiatry with the arrow
and I walked straight there
because that's what you do.
I don't know.
And they put me on Klonopin.
That's how this all started.
>> They're trained while
they're on active duty very,
very systematically that if
you come back and you have
problems, you need
to go to the doctor.
100 years ago if they had
this kind of a trauma,
would talk to their
fellow soldiers,
talk to their parents,
talk to their friends,
talk to their pastor.
And instead, they're
going to their doctor
and getting medicated.
>> And I think the Klonopin
was starting to make me worse
but they just kept telling
me that's what PTSD is.
You have PTSD now.
And then I remember he
looked at me and he said,
we're going to start
the proceedings
for medical retirement.
You are not able to be around
soldiers and no weapons.
And I remember feeling like,
how was I like super soldier
and now I'm disabled at 25?
Are you kidding?
>> There is a post-traumatic
stress and it's a problem.
So we would never argue with
you that it is not a problem.
It is a problem.
It's a big problem.
But for you, it's
not a mental illness.
>> Like I feel like I'm
waking up from a nightmare.
Like what the fuck just
happened to my life?
>> You lost years of your life.
You lost your career.
There's just so many things
that are losses in here.
That's part of the situation
that we're in right now
as a culture.
Is that if you run to the
doctor and cry about this,
they're going to say, oh
you have major depression
and you're going to stick
you on the next pill instead
of saying, hey, you know what?
Suffering is the
only normal response.
There's a grief process.
>> Yeah-- yeah--
>> That you have to go through.
>> Yes.
Wow.
>> Normals and danger.
The definitions
used in psychiatry
and even more the
way they're applied
have become so wide that
a far too large percentage
of the population
would be defined
as having a mental disorder.
>> Now we have patients come in
and if they're anxious or they
can't sleep or they have
some kind of physical pain,
it's like oh my gosh, know
let's get rid of that.
We have really vilified pain.
And I'm talking emotional
pain, physical pain,
like it has now become the
responsibility of the doctor
to eliminate all
suffering at all costs.
>> There is a cultural context.
And the context really
goes back to the arrival
of antibiotics in the late 1940s
and then the polio vaccine.
They really do change life.
Bacterial infections
are no longer a problem
and now we have this
magic cure for polio.
So now, we believe
in magic bullets.
Pretty soon, we're
going to be having
magic bullets for everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What you find
in psychiatrist,
you trace its history,
that is in the 1970s.
American psychiatry
was in competition
with other therapists--
talk therapy, counselors,
social workers.
What do they say to themselves?
They say we need to
present ourselves
as doctors, as medical doctors.
We need to put on a white coat.
They adopt a disease
model for categorizing
psychiatric disorder.
We're going to say
these are diseases
of the brain, illnesses of
the brain that are drugs,
therefore, treat the
symptoms of those illnesses.
It centers on this
chemical imbalance
theory of mental disorders.
>> While the cause is unknown,
depression may be related
to an imbalance of natural
chemicals between nerve cells
in the brain.
Prescription Zoloft works
to correct this imbalance.
When you know more
about what's wrong,
you can help make it right.
>> It hasn't been possible to
demonstrate that first you have
a chemical imbalance,
and then because of that,
you become depressed
or psychotic.
But what we have shown
is that the drugs
create a chemical imbalance.
Nobody has a clue
what happens when
you push this system somewhere.
You have all sorts of
reactions elsewhere.
It's a very naive thought
that a psychiatric disorder
is based on one single thing
chemically that went wrong,
and then we have a
quick fix for that.
It's totally, totally naive.
>> In 1980, the American
Psychiatric Association adopted
a disease model and began to
tell that story to the American
public.
You know who was so
happy with that story?
The pharmaceutical industry.
They were thrilled
with this story
because now they could
see markets expanding.
Depression, anxiety,
all these things
that we use to think of as
sort of normal fluctuations
in human experience could
now be seen as illnesses,
therefore you could treat
with drugs and they said wow.
>> Binge-eating Disorder or
BED isn't just overeating.
It's a real medical condition.
Certain chemicals in the
brain may play a role.
BED is also the most common
eating disorder in US adults.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I never really thought that
the medication was a bad thing.
I was like, yeah, this is
going to make me feel better.
Awesome.
OK, if this other one's going
to make me feel better, awesome.
Oh, if these four are going
to make me feel better, great,
let's do it.
I will try anything.
>> There was never any notion
that the medication was causing
these symptoms.
It was more like the
disease was developing.
>> The only warning
she sort of gave,
but she was very dismissive
about it, was you might hear,
Mr. Green, that
in some instances,
people who are on
antidepressants might have
suicidal thoughts, but this
really isn't something you
should be overly
concerned about.
>> She said kind of almost
flippantly, like, oh,
you might want to
lock up your knives.
So we went out and bought--
>> We did.
>> A lock box and put
anything dangerous in there.
And that's really when it kind
of sunk in even more, like,
wow, this is serious.
>> So I was hospitalized that
first time when I was 13.
But over the course
of a year, I think
I was hospitalized seven
times, seven, eight times.
>> Leaving her in the hospital,
a psychiatric hospital, I mean,
this was not our life.
This was not our daughter.
We knew our daughter.
We knew, I mean, a
few months before,
she had been sort of a
little depressed, melancholy,
but this was a far
leap from that.
>> And once in the
hospital there,
they added an antipsychotic
because she was now
experiencing
psychotic behaviors.
In addition, they had to
prescribe another medication
to take care of the known side
effects of the antipsychotic.
We didn't really
know what else to do
when we were in the system.
We wanted to trust the experts.
So we went that route.
>> My mind was just filled
with horrible thoughts about me
and about how horrible I was
and how much I hated myself.
I mean, what is even the point
of me being here anymore?
>> Many, many people are
getting an antidepressant,
an antipsychotic,
a benzodiazepine,
and a sleep medicine
without any rhyme or reason.
And instead of the
beneficial effects
of these different
medicines adding up
to something
wonderful, very often,
their harmful effects add
up to something terrible.
>> When I got out of the Army
and went to the VA system,
it was like a whole
other ballgame.
It turned into like,
cocktails of antipsychotic,
antidepressant, benzo.
I would say to the clinician,
I don't have good feelings.
All I just feel is numb
or anxious or depressed.
I don't ever feel happy
or grateful or loving.
And then, oh, we'll just
add another medicine.
Maybe that one's not working.
So then we'll switch
to a different one.
So basically, my
medication history
is just a succession of,
oh, this doesn't work?
Let's go all the way
up to the highest dose
and see what happens.
OK, it didn't work.
OK, come back down.
OK, that didn't work, so let's
switch it and try another one.
It's like a hamster wheel that
I never got off of until now.
>> What happens to someone like
Angie is that when they get
on these medications and
they begin to deteriorate,
the attribution is to their
mental condition as opposed
to the medication.
And so when they
go in and they say,
well, you gave me
an antidepressant,
and now I'm really
depressed, then
they say, well, I see your
depression is worsening,
and so they up it
or add a medication.
Next thing, you're on--
they're on uppers and downers
and, I mean, you just
see this pattern.
And every time they go in,
it's their deteriorating
mental condition instead of
somebody saying, your drug
may be your problem.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi!
>> Nice to see you.
Nice to meet you.
>> You too.
>> Thank you for coming.
>> It's awesome to be here.
I'm so nervous,
because I can't talk
like this at my own school.
So I want to just run through
my story quickly, and then just
talk, because I'm sure you
have really cool questions.
I was on a cocktail of
17 medications at once,
and then, basically,
from 2006 to 2016,
it took me all that time to
get off of everything else.
>> So every time you went in,
and you were prescribed some
of these medications, what
were you told about the side
effects?
How much information
were you given
before you were prescribed
this medication?
>> In the office, you have 10
minutes with the psychiatrist.
That's it.
So then they're like, so
how are you feeling today?
And then you're like, well,
I'm still really anxious
and I didn't sleep last week.
And and then they're
like, well, I
want you to take
this little quiz.
Do you feel jumpy in public?
Do you spend time with friends?
It was just one of those
psychological assessments,
right?
So I'm just filling
out the little test,
and they take the test, and
see him pull out the DSM,
and then he's like,
oh, yeah, you have
generalized anxiety disorder.
And I'm like, what is another
label going to do for me now?
Like, really?
Another label.
Thank you.
Now, I have addict, PTSD,
generalized anxiety,
panic disorder with
agoraphobia, major depression,
like, for what?
What does any of those
labels do for me?
Nothing.
I'm doing everything
that you tell me to do,
and I'm not getting better.
So the most hurtful
part of all of this
that I want you to listen to
is that I did all the therapy,
I saw social workers,
therapists, psychiatrists,
psychologists, not
once did somebody say,
it could be your meds.
Not once in 13 years.
That is what hurts me the most.
And now, I'm in
social work school.
I have all A's.
My brain is coming back.
I can write a mean APA paper.
Yeah?
>> You're talking about a lot
of these meds that are being
prescribed for four to six years
should only be taken for a few
weeks.
Do you think there's ever
a place for medications,
or would you ever
hold someone's hand
through that decision process?
>> At the beginning,
I was anti-med.
Like, no way.
Hell no.
Because I'm lucky that I didn't
kill myself or someone else.
So how can I say, oh, go ahead,
take those meds, you know?
And there is times
when some people--
and when I say some,
I mean very few.
So I'm not anti-med.
I'm pro informed consent.
So if you, as a
social worker, want
to talk to them about
informed consent,
that is well within
our boundaries.
We get it for a surgery.
Why aren't we
getting it for meds?
>> You shared that you're
very uncomfortable with all
the labels you've been given.
If you could change that label
to something, what would you?
>> I just think I was in--
like, I was just scared.
Like, I was just scared a
little girl that was 24.
It didn't have to be so
complicated, you know?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I was first diagnosed with
ADHD when I was 15, I think.
I remember it being a
relief to get the diagnosis.
Oh, my gosh, OK.
That's why everything's so hard.
It's not that I'm stupid.
It's not that I'm lazy.
I was pretty severely depressed.
I mean, I couldn't go to school.
I just cried all the time.
And yeah, just kind of a mess.
At that point, then, I
was put on Dexedrine.
I felt a ton better and
was able to go to school
on a regular basis.
I felt some hope again.
>> I hear anecdotes that vary,
anecdotes of the great effects
of drugs.
And I would say that's about
20%, 25% of anecdotes I hear.
This has really
been great for me.
This has helped me through
a very difficult time.
About 40% saying, it
may have helped some.
It's hard to tell what
exactly it was doing.
I can't say it hurt me.
Can't say it helped me.
I seem kind of indifferent
to what it may have done.
And then, I get the other 30%
or 35% saying, this hurt me.
This damaged me.
That's the anecdotes
I've been hearing.
And I think that
details a little bit
what you find in the
literature out there.
>> The reason that I kind of
changed the way I practice was
the realization that I was
actually harming my patients.
It is very clear that there
is a cohort of patients
for whom getting off of these
drugs is exquisitely painful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When Dave decided
to go off the meds,
I think he probably didn't share
it with me because he knew that
they worked for me and they
were successful for me,
but that wasn't
the case for him.
>> She knew something
was different.
She knew something was wrong.
I was having a lot
of irritability,
a lot of difficulty
communicating,
so it put a lot of stress
on our relationship,
and we just didn't
talk about it much.
>> I thought I was the
worst wife in the world,
and I didn't know
what was going on.
And every day, driving
home, I was like, OK,
what can I do differently?
And about, I would
say, four weeks later,
he shared with me that
he had taken himself
off the medication.
And that was a
huge relief to me.
OK, it's not me.
But yeah, he just became
short and irritable
and he wasn't positive anymore.
Everything was negative.
>> I was totally dysfunctional
and began experiencing what
I'll call this irrational
terror-like level of anxiety
that I had never
previously experienced.
>> I'd come home from work,
and I found him on the kitchen
floor curled up in a ball
just sobbing and rocking.
Didn't want anybody to touch
him, be anywhere near him.
He'd go find a place
to go hide in the house
and just sob uncontrollably.
It was really,
really hard to see.
>> I got to a point where I
wholesale refused to consume
any more drugs, and that kind
of came to a head several months
ago.
And that's why, right
now, we're separated.
>> The breaking point for
me deciding to move out,
there was a couple of things.
He is of the mindset that
it's just going to take time
and there's nothing
that you can do.
I said, you know, here's
what the options that I see.
They're mostly medical-based,
and he's absolutely refused.
>> I explained my entire
background to my psychiatrist.
I said look, I took pride
in being in the Navy.
I took pride in surviving
and making it through MIT
and had high hopes to do
good things for the Navy
and for the country, and
now, I don't know who I am.
And the only thing that's
happened between then
and now is I've been
exposed to a series of very
strong psychiatric medications.
And the answer after
20 minutes was, well,
I can give you a
prescription for Cymbalta.
>> When I did move out, he
called me and said that he was
standing in the basement
next to a noose, and I said,
and what's your safety plan?
And he said, to call you.
And I said, that's
not a safety plan.
You need to hang
up and call 911.
And I hate having
to tell him that.
It feels callous to me.
>> When you're going through
withdrawal psychiatric drugs,
the best thing is to kind of
get back off that ledge and just
say, Dave, just give yourself--
give yourself more time.
Give yourself more time.
Continue to fight for
it, and someday, you'll
regain a sense of normalcy
in your day-to-day life.
>> Typically, we find that
the withdrawal phenomenon is
the opposite of
whatever the drug does.
If the intention of the
drug is to help somebody
be more relaxed or
help them fall asleep,
then when they're
experiencing withdrawal,
what they will experience
is anxiety and restlessness
and insomnia.
It may even get so bad that
they are profoundly depressed
and consider suicide.
>> Withdrawal symptoms can often
be much worse than the original
problems the person came with.
And the withdrawal is very,
very difficult, sometimes
quite dangerous, may take
months or years to really
be accomplished.
People are jumping out of their
skin feeling terrific anxiety,
having all sorts of
physiological symptoms
that are difficult to bear.
People cannot stop this medicine
except in the slowest possible
way with very gradual
reductions in dose.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So this is how
I cut my pills.
So I'm doing here a 10% taper.
So take the pill, I weigh it.
So whole pill at 2
milligrams weighs 0.15.
Now, I need 10% of that.
You don't want to take off
too much because you're
going to waste the pills.
So it's almost there actually.
That's 10%.
Yeah.
The first time I tapered, I
didn't have my scale as yet,
so I was just eyeballing because
I was determined to get off.
Your body will tell you if
you're handling the cuts based
on symptoms.
So it took me a while
to get from 2 to 1.6.
It was 1.64.
That's all I could go.
>> So this group has
almost 2,300 members.
People just post stuff.
How's everyone doing today?
Let's see.
I'm in a strange window today.
Up dose for almost two days.
Up dose is when you're
at a certain dose
and the symptoms get
really bad, so you go back
to the original dose where
you weren't feeling so bad.
Everyone has unique stuff
running through you.
No two persons are alike.
I had brain zap.
I had tremors.
I had severe night sweats.
I have a symptom where it
feels like things are crawling
inside my body, just moving.
And I came across this
image, and I was like, wow,
that's exactly how--
that's exactly how it is.
Nobody understands this.
And if you don't have support,
you will lose yourself.
I have been a part
of these groups
since August of last year.
And since August of last year,
we lost three people to suicide
in my support groups.
Three.
We lost a 50-something
year old woman
whose doctor cold turkied
her off of Klonopin,
and she suffered.
And she has two little boys.
And she walked in
front of a train
because she couldn't
deal with it anymore.
About a month ago, we lost
a 40-something year old guy.
He shot himself in the head.
Blew his-- blew his head off.
So we're losing
people in this fight.
I think about it all the time.
What if my symptoms get to the
point where I can't make it?
What am I going to do?
>> Let's go back to the
start of this disease model
in the 1980s, OK?
Now, the first drug that
was tested in this new era
was Xanax, alprazolam,
for panic disorder.
And here was the
study they conducted.
They compared Xanax
versus a placebo
group and the primary
outcome measure
was the number of panic
attacks on average per week.
And after four weeks,
Xanax was doing better.
Fewer panic attacks.
At eight weeks,
the Xanax patients
were doing no
better than placebo.
And then, at the
end of 14 weeks,
the Xanax patients
were doing worse
than they were at the
beginning, and much,
much worse than the
placebo patients.
The trial told of harm done.
It told of people who were
going to get addicted.
When they came off,
they'd have all sorts
of withdrawal symptoms, and
some people unable to get off.
That's what the study showed.
What did they report?
They didn't report the
eight-week results.
They focused on the
four-week results
because that was
a story that told
of an effective new
treatment for panic disorder
and completely hid
the 14-week results.
Pretty soon, Xanax became
one of the best-selling drugs
in the country.
It is still prescribed
left and right.
And what did we have
in the early '80s?
A story of science
that told of harm done.
>> The longer you
take a study out,
the more likely you are to see
people not doing well on that
drug or developing side
effects from that drug.
So the pharmaceutical industry
doesn't favor long-term studies
for monetary reasons
and for outcome reasons.
They don't want to show
that their drug actually
doesn't do well.
>> The gorilla in the room is
the pharmaceutical industry.
The drug companies spend
something like $80 billion
a year on marketing
and lobbying.
They spend much, much
less on research,
and most of the research they do
is really a tool of marketing.
>> There's as much marketing
in the tests that are devised
to measure the outcomes, in the
investigators that are hired
to conduct the study.
All of that stuff is
marketing, but it's
presented and manufactured
and published as science.
>> So here's how it's
done and how it was done.
The pharmaceutical companies
funneled all sorts of money
to what are called
thought leaders,
academic psychiatrists
at prestigious American
universities, Harvard,
Stanford, Johns Hopkins,
and those academic
psychiatrists began
working for the drug
companies as consultants,
serving as their speakers,
advisors, et cetera.
You would start with a
clinical study of the drug,
but who's designing the study?
The pharmaceutical companies.
They know how to design it
to make their drug look good.
That's step one.
Who then analyzes the data?
Well, their own people do it.
It's done by the drug
companies themselves.
Third, then, who
writes the papers?
It's actually ghostwriters
hired by the drug companies
to write up the study.
They now present this
study to the people
that they want to be the
big names of the study,
and then those thought
leaders basically sign off
on the ghostwritten papers
and they become, quote,
the "authors" of
the published paper.
The former editors of the
medical journals like "JAMA"
and "New England Journal
of Medicine" and "BMJ",
"British Medical
Journal", they've all
said that basically, we became
vehicles for story laundering.
It was a corrupted creation
of an evidence base.
Now, I'm a practicing
doctor in some town.
What am I going to believe?
I'm going to believe Mr. Doctor
bigwig at Harvard University
that this is the best science.
So my obligation is to use the
very drug they say is so great.
So, for example, Prozac.
Prozac didn't really
work in the trials.
Prozac had all sorts
of adverse effects.
And those of us
who are old enough
to remember when Prozac came
to market, the drug itself
was on the cover of magazines.
Our powers are such now
that we can give you
whatever personality you want.
That's how great our
knowledge is advancing.
That was the story told.
What did science tell us?
Do you know what they found?
In the 1970s, very first
studies done in Germany,
what do they see?
All sorts of psychotic events,
worsening of depression,
homicidal, suicidal
impulses, so much
that the German authorities
said, this is a dangerous drug.
We're not going to approve it.
And now, go read
the studies that
were reported by the Americans.
The psychosis is gone.
The homicidal problems are gone.
Imagine you're a mother,
and I know mothers
who said to their kid who got
depressed over breaking up
with a girl or
something like that,
the doctor says, oh, Prozac
doesn't increase suicide risk,
and then, a week later,
that kid hangs himself.
That's a real case.
Can you think of any worse
corruption than that?
>> It has been shown that
half of the deaths that occur
in psychiatric drug trials,
they're never published.
They disappear.
You have an expression In
America, torture your data
until they confess.
And this happens all the time.
The difference between an
honest data analysis and one
you have manipulated
can be worth billions
on the world market.
So what do you think they'll do?
[MUSIC - BOBBY MCFERRIN, "DON'T
WORRY BE HAPPY"]
(SINGING) Don't worry.
Be happy.
Don't worry, be happy.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Market's awfully crowded.
>> What do you want?
>> You want to
start on this side?
>> I'm still nowhere
near the person I was,
but this is how I
explain it to my wife.
I know I love her.
I know.
I can remember, I can recall
the feelings and the sensations
of when we met and we
dated and we got married,
but I don't feel love.
I don't feel love for her.
I don't feel love for my dog.
I don't feel love
or connection--
I mean, it's almost
like I don't feel
for other people's concerns
or feelings or emotions.
I think that's multifaceted.
I think it's partly
the drugs, I think
it's partly brought on by
the severe trauma of going
through the experience.
>> I don't know.
My family hasn't
necessarily understood
why I've chosen to
come back and stay
in an abusive relationship.
>> Why do they
define it as abusive?
I have said some hurtful things.
>> Yes.
And when you were in the
absolute depths of it,
you were abusive.
>> In what way?
Verbally abusive?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
Not physically abusive?
>> Not physically, no.
But verbally abusive.
>> I can recall telling you,
you just got to give me time.
>> I was so mad at you.
>> Why were you so mad?
>> Well, because we had given
it time, and it wasn't getting,
really, any better.
And I didn't feel like that
treatment plan was necessarily
working.
I mean, you said some
pretty horrible things.
And it happened so quickly
after we got married,
I felt like it was like a
bait and switch kind of deal.
>> So what do you think
about you trying to get off
of Vyvanse this summer?
>> I would like to try.
>> Yeah.
>> I think it's
going to be hard.
Honestly, what I'm most
scared about, honey,
is that I haven't
heard, I'm here
to support you through this,
regardless of what happens.
And that's-- are you listening?
>> I am.
>> OK.
It doesn't feel like it.
>> I'm listening.
>> Thank you.
I have been through
hell with you
and have held you
while you've banged
your head against
the wall, and this
is my fear coming
from the things that
were said when you
were in your depths,
and that's that
you're going to say,
well, maybe this isn't the
right relationship for us.
>> Yeah.
I hear you.
>> And I've put so much into it.
>> Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There really is no research
on the long-term impact
of stimulant use, but the
longer you're on them,
the higher the dose, the more
risks that you incur over time
and the less actual benefit
you get from that drug.
>> Hello.
>> Hi.
How are you?
>> Good.
>> So how's your
focus been doing?
>> Not as hot as
I would like it.
I kind of feel like I've
reached the tolerance.
>> How long overall has it been
that you've been on stimulants
in total?
>> 15 years, at least.
>> OK.
Your dosage is as high as
I've ever seen for myself.
But if it's just not
great, then, normally, we
would try Adderall.
>> OK.
>> And I'm actually interested
in decreasing and getting off.
>> Right.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you always can.
If I were you, myself, I
wouldn't just abruptly stop.
>> Well, no.
I'm not interested
in abruptly stopping.
That's what my husband did,
and that was not pretty.
>> You could actually open
the capsule and gradually,
day after day, just take
out a little bit more.
>> OK, at what rate?
>> You could kind of judge.
You could maybe drop a third
of the amount out one of them,
wait for a few days, take a
third out of the other one,
and just kind of wean off.
If, on the other hand,
you said definitely,
it's better to be
on the medicine,
but it's still not great,
then I would recommend
trying Adderall,
just because it's got
a little bit higher potency.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, thank you.
I appreciate your--
>> Oh, yeah, sure.
Anything else?
>> I think that's it.
All right.
Thank you very much.
>> You're very welcome.
>> I appreciate it.
>> Oh, Brooklyn.
Well, we're going
to see the doctor.
We're going to see that doctor
that put me on these drugs.
There's a hidden
camera right here,
and I got some wires
underneath all this.
Well, this is it.
There is the office right there.
What do you know about benzo?
>> Listen, unfortunately, a
lot of people take benzos these
days and they don't
want to come off.
But--
>> They can't come off.
>> No, no, they can.
It's just a lot of people can't
work up the determination.
It's not about benzos.
It's about your determination.
That's how people stop smoking.
That's how people stop
heroin, coke, whatever.
I've seen this all the time.
>> Why do you think it's so
hard to get people off benzos?
>> Because it's their fault.
They don't want to go through
any little pain,
discomfort, and suffering.
>> Yeah, but do you know the
kind of pain and discomfort?
>> When you hear the crap that
you cannot get off benzos,
total crap.
They're paying lip service.
I always tell people,
it's never a free ride.
It's not like--
>> You didn't tell me that.
You said, you can
stop anytime you want.
There'll be no problem to stop.
>> You can stop.
>> Yes, but that's not the
impression that you gave.
I didn't know I was going
to have withdrawal symptoms.
If you had told me,
by the way, this drug
can give you
withdrawal symptoms,
then I would have
made my own decision.
I based my decision
on taking this drug
because of you, because of
the trust that I had in you.
If I was given the
clear picture as to what
the profile of this
drug was, I would
have said no freaking way.
He's following the script.
He said, I went
to medical school
and I'm a board
certified psychiatrist,
and I follow everything that
they say to diagnose people.
So basically, he doesn't believe
that he's doing anything wrong.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We go into this field
because we want to help people,
but it's very difficult to
know where to turn for unbiased
evidence on these issues.
The pharmaceutical industry
has tremendous influence
over what doctors learn,
how they learn it.
So general lack of
knowledge about the dangers
of these drugs is one
of the main reasons
that doctors continue
to prescribe,
even when they're inadvertently
causing their patients harm.
>> You know, right before
she went on medication,
she was just fine.
She was a little
depressed, but she was not
having psychotic episodes.
She was not having body tics.
She was not hallucinating.
Do you think that the medication
is actually the cause of this?
It was as if I was asking
the most irrelevant question
in the world.
I never got a real response.
It was just not worthy
of their attention.
The more that we were talking
about, this is who Rebecca is.
We know our daughter, and
we know this medication has
turned her into someone else.
>> We said, we don't think
she should be on medication,
and here's why.
And we read off the
list of symptoms.
>> He basically said, you know,
I think this is a really bad
decision, a huge mistake.
It was a reminder of a year in
which, by and large, whenever
we went down this path
of, is medication harmful,
we got no support from the
psychiatrist that we saw.
None.
If it's not medication, then
you're not doing it right.
But we stuck to our guns.
This sounds very dramatic,
but I feel that decision
saved our daughter's life.
>> I kept thinking when she was
first telling us that she was
feeling depressed, that
I wouldn't even have had
the vocabulary to say
that when I was her age.
So that just tells
you a little bit
about how pervasive this
has become in our society.
I see children who are acting
out or feeling distressed,
they are like the canaries
in the coal mine that
are basically shouting out,
there is something wrong,
but we quiet them.
>> I got out of the hospital.
They took me off medication.
Within a few months,
I was back to normal.
Not normal, but I was--
my hallucinations
were completely gone,
and what was left was
the issues to begin with,
the anxiety and the
eating disorder.
And then, we could move to
focus on those, because those
were the problems.
College was something
that I never
thought that I would do during
that year, and even afterwards.
I was like, there's no
way I can go to college.
I can't handle that.
But here I am, handling it.
And it's paradise
for someone who
loves school as much as I do.
So I'm just kind of being
a normal college student
and having fun, because that's
what I can actually do now.
[CHANTING]
>> So why did you
do this for me?
>> I was just as concerned
as you were about coming off
the drugs, and I wanted to make
sure that you were in charge.
You did what you felt
was best, but you also
had the tools laid out for you.
The best way is, essentially,
an exponential taper.
And that's what we
plotted out here.
And what that leads to is
this nice, slow decline
over an extended period of time.
Do you think it
was of any value?
>> Well, yeah, because
when I did it myself,
I went down too quickly
and it felt horrible.
And this gave me a clear
plan with specific dates
and numbers.
It was very helpful.
>> Math can be love.
[LAUGHS]
>> I see glimmers of the old
Dave much more often than I
have in several years.
He's not there all the time,
but I want to come home now.
Whereas before, it was, OK,
take a couple of deep breaths
and come home.
But now, I want to come home.
Which is a good feeling.
It's nice to feel that again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So he got killed in action
a month to the day after I was
medevacked out.
So now, I'm processing
this grief 13 years later,
which most people would say,
you should be over it right now.
You know, I just had to call
one of my soldiers and be like,
can you tell me the story again?
Because last time I
heard it, I was on drugs
and I didn't feel it.
So now, I need to
sit by him and think,
look what this war did
to us, and feel it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]